---
layout: post
title: Careers
---

You've come to the right place if you're looking for a workplace that invests deeply in the professional growth of its employees. Here's a few ways that we do that:
<ul>
	<li>We've implemented our own version of the 20% time that Google is famous for. You get to spend 45 minutes _everyday _learning and interacting with your colleagues.</li>
	<li>We ask everyone to leave by 7PM everyday. And working weekends are strongly discouraged.</li>
	<li>We constantly invest in some of the best training material available</li>
	<li>We invite industry leaders to visit our office and interact with the team here. We call these events "fireside chats"</li>
	<li>We have lunch together on Wednesdays - so that all of us get an hour to discuss _anything_ that's we want to</li>
	<li>We conduct hacknights</li>
</ul>

<iframe width="640" height="360" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PL30224EBABC00FC5C&hl=en_US" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

p. We also take everyone out to lunch and dinner every couple of months. We do  team trips to interesting places. We've got a fully stocked snack bar within the office 'coz hungry employees are no fun to work with. And we celebrate birthday's and anniversaries - and anything else, that calls for a celebration :).


<div></div>
<p id="open-positions">Still thinking about working for us? Write to us at info@multunus.com with your questions and we'll get them promptly answered.


<div></div>
<h1 id = "open_positions">Open Positions


<h2 class="subhead">Programmer


*Experience:* 0-3 years
*Mandatory:* Web Application Development experience. More specifically, this includes *all of the following*:
<ul>
        <li>Very good OO skills</li>
        <li>Good HTML, CSS and Javascript skills</li>
	<li>A high level of comfort in *at least one* web framework</li>
	<li>A good architectural understanding of the what and why of *web services*</li>
	<li>Good English speaking and writing skills</li>
	<li>A strong desire to work in a small organization (we're less than 20 at this point)</li>
	<li>A high level of personal integrity</li>
	<li>Compassion and empathy for your team mates</li>
</ul>
*Preferred:* The more you can check off in the following list, the better are your chances:
<ul>
	<li>Familiarity of SOLID principles and the GoF design patterns</li>
	<li>Mobile Application Development experience (iOS/Android/Windows)</li>
	<li>A deep interest in software engineering - especially agile development methodologies (Scrum/XP/Kanban/Lean)</li>
	<li>Open Source Contributions</li>
	<li>A strong passion for creating great user experiences</li>
	<li>A deep interest in startups - and what makes them tick (Bonus points for awareness of Lean Startups)</li>
	<li>A deep interest in the non functional aspects of software - especially performance and security</li>
	<li>A deep interest in the *product* development lifecycle</li>
	<li>An obsession for automating *anything* that's repetitive</li>
</ul>
*How to Apply:* Watch Akshay explain the puzzle in the video below (< 2min). If you’re in a hurry, visit <a href="http://puzzle.multunus.com">puzzle.multunus.com</a>

<iframe src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/5ILAp0Id9Og?rel=0" frameborder="0" width="640" height="360"></iframe>

<h1 id="hiring-process-faq">Hiring Process FAQ


If your question is not answered below or you’re impatient, feel free to reach out to us using the contact information given above.

<a href="#id1">Q: What do you look for in candidates for your developer positions?</a>
<a href="#id2">Q: How many rounds of interviews do you have?</a>
<a href="#id3">Q: What are the steps in the hiring process?</a>
<a href="#id4">Q: What languages am I allowed to use for the programming rounds?</a>
<a href="#id5">Q: Will the in-person interview take a lot of time? </a>
<a href="#id6">Q: I’ll probably not be able to come down to Bangalore for the in-person rounds. Can these be conducted remotely?</a>
<a href="#id7">Q: I will need to travel a long way to Bangalore to attend the in-person round. Will you re-imburse the cost of my travel?</a>

<strong id="id1">Q: What do you look for in candidates for your developer positions?*
A love for programming and a great attitude are the fundamental requirements. For details, please check the <a href="#open_positions">Open Positions</a> section above.

<strong id="id2">Q: How many rounds of interviews do you have?*
Usually 4-5 rounds. But the interview process is agile in nature. What this means, is that we’ll have as many rounds as is required for us to make our decision. Generally though, 3-4 of our colleagues will interact with you – over phone calls, in-person conversations and a pair-programming assignment

<strong id="id3">Q: What are the steps in the hiring process?*
We require all candidates to fill up our online forms. You can find them <a href="?page_id=111">here</a>. If we like your profile, one of our senior engineers will reach out to you by email or a phone call. Depending on the situation, we’ll either invite you over for a test at our office premises in Bangalore or have a preliminary discussion with you on phone. Assuming that step goes well, we’ll follow up with the next rounds quickly and if possible, try and complete the entire process in a day’s time.

<strong id="id4">Q: What languages am I allowed to use for the programming rounds?*
We’re mostly language and platform agnostic in our approach to problem solving, at Multunus. Hence you get to pick the platform of your choice and we’ll set up a development environment according to your taste.

<strong id="id5">Q: Will the in-person interview take a lot of time?*
Yes, please plan to spend 4-6 hours at our office on the day you’re invited to come over.

<strong id="id6">Q: I’ll probably not be able to come down to Bangalore for the in-person rounds. Can these be conducted remotely?*
If you cannot make it in person for some reason, we’ll try and conduct these “personal” rounds via a Skype video call. But that would be an exception, rather than the rule.

<strong id="id7">Q: I will need to travel a long way to Bangalore to attend the in-person round. Will you re-imburse the cost of my travel?*
Yes, sometimes we do. If you’d like us to re-imburse your travel expenses, please make sure to check with us first before planning your travel. Based on the specific situation, we’ll make a decision and let you know.